The Joe Rogan experience.
I do not think, uh, polyamorous folks are on the right track.
I think that what they're up to is, I mean,
I know from the ones who are serious about it and talk about it,
that even within the polyamorous community,
there's a recognition about just how difficult it is to make it work. Um,
but I don't really want to interfere with their right to do it.
I would like to be able to talk about whether it's a good idea,
whether it has societal implications that we should be a aware of,
but by how do.
You feel like they're not on the right track and isn't everyone's track. I mean,
if we can accept trans folk and we can accept, uh,
women to subscribe to cultural norms and wearing high heels and makeup in the
worst place, can't we accept polyamorous behavior and what's, so that.
That's what I'm telling you, is that difficult though?
I personally would counsel somebody if you know, and I,
I have had this conversation with many students, for example, um,
I would counsel them away from it because I think it actually prioritizes
one thing which is desirable, but that the call of it is very, very high.
Um, and what does it prioritize?
It prioritizes not locking yourself into a
single sexual relationship.
And I think there's a way in which there is a terror that surrounds locking
yourself into a single sexual relationship.
And part of the terror goes back to what we were talking about at the beginning
of the, if you think that, um,
beauty max is maxed out at 20,
and then it wanes over life. Then as a woman,
you're trapped in this terrible situation where you've got this power
long before you know what to do with it, and it's going to evaporate.
So you better capitalize that.
And if you're a man you're very frightened that you're gonna get into a
relationship,
and then you're gonna watch this person that you love fall apart in front of
your eyes. And you're gonna be, you know,
you're gonna be caught in that situation.
And I don't think this is the reality of a Parabon.
I think the reality of a Parabon is way better than we fear, but that,
because we've got this overly simplistic mythology surrounding it,
a lot of people are trying to solve that problem.
How do I not get locked into that relationship?
That's going to trap me with somebody who's how do I not get bored decaying in
front of me? Right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> um, yeah, I.
Don't think it's a decaying thing. I, I would push back against that.
I'm would say, people just want more variety.
They just want they're attracted to other people and they want to act on that.
And if they find a partner who is also willing to do that and they stay
together, I don't see what would be the issue if they wanted to.
Do it. Well, I'm, I'm,
I'm telling you specifically that I don't wanna stop them from doing it,
but I do want people to think very carefully about the issues. I mean,
I'm just speaking as one guy who's lived one life. Um,
the value that I get out of, um,
having as close to perfect security at home,
as I can have in a relationship, I mean,
Heather and I have been all over the world.
We've taken our kids into parts of the Amazon that are four
hours by boat from the nearest road, right. This is not a boring relationship.
This relationship has been a non-stop adventure. Right. But no, one's.
Trying to push polyamory on you. Right?
Well, a, I wouldn't say that that's true.
I would say that the people are not as an individual,
but what I would say is they are promoting an idea that this
is the sophisticated way to live. It's the wave of the future, if they really,
yeah. And how common is this? Is this well, I mean,
you mentioned sex at Dawn yourself. And so the idea is.
Yeah, but Chris is my friend and he is crazy.
There you go. But what I.
Would say, but he believes it, he might be right.
He does believe it. And I, you know, I, for him, it is right.
I have been convinced by, uh, a friend, you know,
who I had a longstanding argument with on this topic.
And what he convinced me is that a friend who is polyamorous, yes,
a friend who is polyamorous,
and this friend has convinced me that it can be accomplished that there's
somewhere to get, but he acknowledges that it actually, um,
in the case that he points to took several generations, um,
literally several generations to arrive at a stable, uh, situation. But.
You guys have a wonderful relationship though.
I know many people who have terrible, terrible relationships. And for them, the,
the notion of monogamy seems absurd. It seems like a trap that you get stuck in,
you grow to resent each other,
you and then you get sick of each other and then you fight in court until you
figure out who gets all the money. Totally. Right.
I would say, you know, those people shouldn't be together,
obviously I think you're right.
But then the is a conflation between polyamory and promiscuity, right?
That just a free for all a sex with strangers free for all mm-hmm <affirmative>
is different from the kind of careful approach to
polyamory that this friend takes,
which still looks extraordinarily difficult to pull off given
what human beings are from a jealousy.
Perspective, but isn't monogamy extraordinarily difficult to pull off. I mean,
isn't the rate of divorce in this country alone. It's somewhere around 50%.
And Chris rock famously said, that's just 50% who had the courage to leave.
How many coward still? Well.
But here, but this is, this is part of the point about novelty.
We are living in a situation where our narratives sell us a false picture
of our opportunities. Um,
our narratives are partially driven by an economy that wants us to be insecure
enough to spend money like crazy. Um,
and so I'm not telling people that they should live one way
or the other I'm telling them that they should UN understand what their real
options are.
And polyamory as an experiment is all well and good.
But what happens when you introduce children into the mix,
right? That's very, very different.
It's very different because children are so costly to raise.
And because human males are wired to fear raising
offspring that they themselves did not produce genetically. Now,
I don't think it makes sense to actually care very much about your genes
and advancing their interests.
I think this is something evolution has stuck us with that is not valuable.
It's actually destructive it's so nonetheless, we can potentially move past,
but we are wired for it.
And so what I'm expecting to happen is if you, uh,
have a large scale experiment in polyamory,
what it's going to do is it is going to break into
polygeny and it is gonna break down into single motherhood
as men leave these relationships in order to engage in perhaps more
polyamory with younger women. And it's going to be yet one more thing that is,
uh, unevenly distributed between the sexes. So.
Choose your mate wisely. Well.
Choose your mate wisely,
but we don't even realize that we are interfering with your ability to do that
in ways that we don't. Um, we don't Intuit.
We have a landscape in which nobody, uh,
is paying attention to the way we are interfering in the normal processes.
That would cause you to find a mate with whom you might have a very rewarding,
uh.
Lifelong processes. Are you referring.
To, well, let me take an absurd one. Okay.
We have no idea what effect deodorant is having <laugh>
on us choosing the right mate. We do know that in studies that, um,
there are molecules that you can't consciously tell you're detecting that do
affect mate choice. And we know that we're interfering with that stuff. Well.
We know that birth control affects that as well as well. Women's ability,
promot, birth control. Yeah.
Specifically woman's ability to smell whether or not she's even genetically
compatible with.
A man. Absolutely. And which is.
Really freaky. It's like those lizards, how do they know? Right.
They just just know rubbing up against each other, get a sense. So.
I think, I think what, um, do you wear deodorant? Uh, I try not to,
um, at the moment I'm wearing it because sweat stains would be socially.
You're wearing anti.
Purse press. I guess I am. Yeah. I guess I different's important.
Distinction there yeah's dangerous. Well, but here, this logging.
Up your pores. This is a great,
this is a great example because I actually did spend, uh,
I don't know if it was a year as an experiment, not wearing deodorant. Um,
how'd that go? Well, <laugh> he was already.
Married. <laugh>.
Um, so a couple interesting, uh, facts. One, it did, uh,
drive some people crazy. I'm sure. Um.
Not.
Me though. Not you.
Did drive, you didn't bother you at all.
I'm not, we've all been around people. We love who at some point are like, dude,
take a shower.
Right. But you know, no, but as long as you took a shower, well,
actually the thing though, is it a shave the armpits thing?
Like if you shave your armpits, do you, I mean, it's the one spot, right?
We're not putting deodorant anywhere else on our body.
We're just putting it on the armpits. Like, is it the, a shaving thing?
Like if you shave your armpits.
If you shave your armpits,
you decrease the rate at which it less diffuses into the environment.
I should make.
A judgment call.
Well, but in some sense, look, I don't know which it is.
Maybe we're being right. And we're being, you know, we've got an industry of,
I don't know how much they make per year selling us these things because we're
afraid of our own human smell. Right, right.
But there's a huge difference between the way somebody smells,
if they don't have good hygiene and somebody who
has the luxury of daily she hours and doesn't wear deodorant,
mm-hmm <affirmative> frankly,
I don't find somebody who is taking daily showers and isn't wearing deodorant.
I don't find it that offputting. And in Europe it's considered much, much.
It's just a different smell. You smell them as opposed to smelling right.
Guard or whatever. It's.
Exactly. And so, anyway, I, I have no idea whether, uh,
if we back our deodorant and anti per sprint stuff off,
whether it would change, who ended up with whom and whether or not.
Marriage is the last might have a small degree of.
Change. Right.
But how many other things are there on the list that we wouldn't think to name
that? What about makeup.
Be interfer? What if women stopped wearing makeup? How much would that change?
Who hooks up with who, how.
Much would it, and you know, if we,
how would it change if we actually learned that there's
a difference between hotness and beauty.
And we actually allowed little girls to
recognize that maybe they weren't so interested in being hot,
because although it gets you a lot of attention, it's a kind of attention.
That's a dead end, right? How much would that change ends up with whom? I mean,
a lot of who ends up with whom at the moment is presumably dictated by people.
Having had their attention captured through hotness.
And then there's a question of whether there's anything there to back it up.
So I, I,
what I wanna see for my own kids' sake is I wanna see a
world in which the noise of the way the market influences,
how we interact with each other. And the notions that get, uh,
promoted as sophisticated,
where that noise is reduced so that people can really begin to detect the
patterns in their life. Actually, this worked for me,
I dated in this way, and this worked for me. I dated in that way,
and it didn't work for me.
It wasn't rewarding that begins to tell you something.